welcome back everyone nice to see that
you keep coming back to the well laszlo
Montgomery here again with a nice
musical Chung you for your ongoing
edification we're using a chung you that
comes from one of the greatest primary
sources in ancient chinese history when
as far as i know we haven't drawn on
this one yet for any chinese sayings
musical or otherwise the work from which
today's chung you is derived is called
deeds which one this work along with
each wouldn't show or spring and autumn
annals written by Confucius or so they
say are a couple of the most
authoritative primary sources of the
spring and autumn period that have made
it to our time so the electron is one
hell of an important work that sheds
some light on those later Joe dynasty
days more than 2,500 years ago let's
look at the story behind Eagle torchy
but before we do so let's plot this four
syllable idiomatic phrase up on the slab
and pick it apart character by character
Eagle torchy ye is the number one a GU
is a drum eagle one drum saw means to
make or to do and Chi this means breath
if you're familiar with the subject of
chi gong this is that character chi sao
line them all up in a row and we get one
drum make breath stop trying to figure
it out if you don't know the story from
which this Chung you sprang I'm telling
you you're wasting your time trying to
guess so let's open up the toilet Ron
and go to the chapter on the ten years
of Duke trung the sixteenth ruler of the
loose States going all the way back to
the oldest son of the Duke of Joe
himself co-starring in this production
is Duke drawing of lose trusty military
advisor Saul quake now loose state is
somewhat of a sacred cow as far as all
these Joe era kingdoms
States go Confucius and matzo both came
from Lou province of shandong is
referred to as Chi luly yang Gor the two
kingdoms of Lu and Qi Lu was in the
south and she was in the north combined
they pretty much make up the whole
province of shandong cars registered in
Shandong Province today have the
character Lou on the license plate
harkening back to this fabled time and
ancient Chinese history the Joe dynasty
we're in the year 684 BCE at the Battle
of changsha the kingdom of Chi was
warring on the neighbor and kingdom of
Lu to the south and the two sides faced
off outside of present-day libel as they
did back in those days the two opposing
sides would face off on the battlefield
and their respective battle drums would
be beaten to summon the other side to
combat all the sudden that familiar boom
that stirred the blood of many ancient
warriors was heard and felt and the
numerically superior Chi army began
pounding their battle drums to start the
beginning of combatant to summon the
little army to engage them Duke trong of
lu gave the order to his senior general
to return the volley and sound the drums
at once however the senior general named
tall quake advised Duke duong not to do
this he counseled his superior to hold
off don't do anything yet wait for Chi
to beat their drums again and then a
third time before doing anything a
second time and then shortly thereafter
for a third time that she army sounded
their battle drums only after the third
time did sulk way tell Duke trung of Lu
now was the time to advance an attack so
the sound of the loo battle drums went
out across the battlefield and with
everyone's adrenaline flowing forward
the loo army advanced so hard and
ferociously did these Lou soldiers fight
that when it was all over it was a
resounding defeat for chi de loup army
totally over
well them and bravery was exhibited by
his troops the likes that Duke drawn had
never seen before that night after Lou
soldiers were mopping up to trung asked
hogleg why he had stayed his hand when
he had called for his drummers to return
the Chi call for battle general sulk we
explained in battle at the very
beginning when the drums are first
beaten a soldier's courage morale and
will to fight is at its highest then
when it beats the second time these
feelings are diminished compared to the
magnitude of a soldier's courage after
hearing the first drum beats by the
third pounding of the drums the courage
of these soldiers will fall to the
extent that their will to fight will be
affected then explains hog way we beat
our drums for the first time and charged
into battle when our soldiers courage
was at its peak with one single pounding
of the battle drums we immediately
rushed forward and overcame our less
courageous enemy when our will to fight
after the first beat of the drum was at
its peak there's on the Chiefs I'd who's
already greatly reduced and therefore
although they outnumbered us greatly we
were able to defeat them to trung the
blue nodded with understanding and said
I see what this means with only one
beating of our drums we gave all we got
and in one sudden burst of energy with
our will to fight at its peak we
overcame Chi and so with eagle one beat
of the drums the army of Lu su Qi
expended all their energies and
therefore emerged victorious on that day
back in 684 BCE eagle tochi that's a
chung you you should keep tucked away
for when you're in a situation where
you're going to be required to give all
you got in one single burst of energy
and trying to accomplish a difficult or
perhaps seemingly impossible task in one
shot you give all you got to achieve
your objective igloo torchy I'm not sure
I can come up with the exact angle
equivalent of this Chung you in a single
burst of energy that's the best I could
come up with so that is our Chinese
saying for this time let me see what
musical Chinese saying I could dig up
for next time I'm running out don't
forget everyone there's not just this
one podcast here a teacup media we have
three to choose from well over a hundred
hours of pure unadulterated enjoyment
over at the long-running China history
podcast and for some dynamite travel
literature from Westerners who went to
China during the Ching dynasty and wrote
about it go check out the China vintage
our all available in iTunes Google Music
stitcher tune in radio overcast all the
good ones and if you're flying cathay
pacific airways they to carry this stuff
in their in-flight entertainment system
they have such nice taste okay until the
next time this is your hosts Lazlo
Montgomery signing off on another
perfect sunny day here in the capital of
Southern California Los Angeles thanks
for popping by for a visit and a listen
and I'll be hoping and praying you'll
come back next time for another exciting
episode of the Chinese sayings podcast